docs: add tutorial (#159)
canonical/charmlibs: .docs/explanation/charmlibs-tests.md

(charmlibs-tests)=
# Types of tests in the charmlibs monorepo

In addition to static analysis, the `charmlibs` monorepo supports running three distinct kinds of tests: unit, functional, and integration tests.
These are all optional from the perspective of the repository infrastructure, and will be skipped if the corresponding `tests/` directory does not exist.
For example, if `<LIBRARY>/tests/functional` does not exist, then the functional testing job will be skipped for `<LIBRARY>`.

> `just <TESTS> <LIBRARY>` will run the tests under `<LIBRARY/tests/<TESTS>` with `pytest`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`just <TESTS> <LIBRARY>` will run the tests under `<LIBRARY>/tests/<TESTS>` with `pytest`.
```

`<TESTS>` is one of unit, functional, or integration.
`<LIBRARY>` is the path from the repository root to the library, for example `pathops` or `interfaces/.example`.

> Extra arguments are passed to `pytest`, so you can, for example, use `-k` to select specific tests, or pass `-x` to exit early on failure.

Reviewer: Should the extra arguments come after `--` or directly after `<LIBRARY>`?

Author: Directly after `<LIBRARY>`.
````suggestion
Extra arguments are passed to [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/6.2.x/usage.html). For example:
```bash
just unit pathops -x  # exit on first failure
```
````

> Extra arguments are passed to `pytest`, so you can, for example, use `-k` to select specific tests, or pass `-x` to exit early on failure.

Reviewer: Minor - I'd probably break the sentence:

```suggestion
Extra arguments are passed to `pytest`. For example, you can use `-k` to select specific tests, or `-x` to exit early on failure.
```

Author: I'll use a full example instead.

The specific version of `pytest` to run is specified in the repository's `test-requirements.txt`.

```{tip}

> `just` command can be invoked from anywhere in the repository, as they always execute from the location of the `justfile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`just` commands can be invoked from anywhere in the repository, as they always execute from the location of the `justfile`.
```

```

## Unit tests

Unit tests are lightweight tests of your library that are fast to run and don't require any additional setup.
They typically mock out the external world so your tests are reproducible and side-effect free.
Execute them locally with:
```bash
just unit <LIBRARY>
```

## Functional tests

Functional tests are intended to be end-to-end tests of everything except the real Juju environment.
Interacting with Juju itself is reserved for integration tests.
Functional tests are most useful for libraries that interact with some significant external component that can be decoupled from the Juju context.

> For example, the `apt` and `snap` packages interact with the Ubuntu system's package management, the majority of which will be the same regardless of whether they're being called from a (machine) charm or not.

Reviewer: I didn't get this at first. How about some slight changes - something like:

```suggestion
For example, the `apt` and `snap` packages interact with the Ubuntu system's package management tools, which will broadly act the same regardless of whether they're being called from a charm. (For machine charms, at least.)
```
